.. _release_notes_2020_12_01:

Highlights from 2020-12-01 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 33`_, `Fedora 32`_, `EPEL 8`_ and
`EPEL 7`_ Bodhi updates.

New mock --isolation option
---------------------------

Users can newly specify if the systemd-nspawn or just a simple chroot is used
on copr builders to isolate the build environment (see docs in `man mock` for the
--isolation option).  The isolation can be now configured per-project, and per build,
e.g.::

    $ copr create <project-name> --chroot <chroot> ... --isolation simple
    $ copr build <project-name> <source.rpm> ... --isolation nspawn

By default we continue to use the default isolation configured in
mock-core-configs package.  In addition to cli, isolation can also be set using
the APIv3 or in the Web UI.

EOL repository management
-------------------------
The page with `your EOL repositories`_ is now even more precise.  When the
chroot is to be expired very soon, the remaining time is newly printed in hours
(not days).

Newly, to avoid race conditions with deleting cron job, the chroots which are
expired can not be anymore prolonged.  Another update here is that the expire
button doesn't expire the chroot immediately - but gives 12 hours more to users
to take the decission back.


Searching by build ID
-----------------------

The (nomally full-text) search bar in the web UI now also searches for build ID,
but only if the search key represents an integer value.  When such build ID
doesn't exist in database, copr falls back to a full text search.


Bugfixes
----------

- The performance degradation on createrepo call in large repositories was
  fixed, we now rely on the built-in modularity support in the `createrepo_c`
  utility (newly in the version 1.16+).

- The build-config APIv3 routes were fixed a backward compatible way so older
  copr clients (python-copr version < 1.106) can still be used against the
  updated frontend.

- The project `homepage` and `contact` fields now can again be filled with empty
  string without problems, previously copr returned http error 500.

- The custom webhook accepts artificial (even binary) hook payload.

.. _`your EOL repositories`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/user/repositories/
.. _`Fedora 33`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2020-83e001bd3f
.. _`Fedora 32`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2020-fe46a1c380
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2020-c12ae853a7
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2020-91149a4361
