.. _release_notes_2021_10_01:

Highlights from 2021-10-01 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 35`_, `Fedora 34`_, `Fedora 33`_,
`EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 7`_ Bodhi updates.


API entrypoint for regenerating repos
----------------------------------------

We have now support for regenerating repositories in APIv3, in the python-copr
package and in the copr-cli package.
You can use `regenerate-repos` command as:

.. code-block:: python

    copr-cli regenerate-repos copr

The command can regenerate all repository metadata for a given project.

All APIv1 code removed
----------------------------------------

According to the deprecation schedule `EOL Copr APIv1 and APIv2`_
we removed APIv1 code from the frontend. I.e., Copr service does not understand APIv1 calls.
Note that APIv1 code was removed from copr-cli and python3-copr months ago.

APIv2 code removed from python3-copr library
--------------------------------------------

If you cannot migrate to APIv3 yet, you can still send requests to
APIv2 endpoints directly, without using the python3-copr library,
or you can temporarily freeze on `python-copr-1.112`.

Please don’t put aside the migration of your code for much longer. In
April 2022 the APIv2 is going to be dropped from the frontend and the
Copr service will no longer understand APIv2 calls.


Bugfixes
--------

- `#54`_ - Previously, the Web-UI pages listing project packages and project builds (including "monitor" page)
  were always loading everything. For very large projects the pages were either way too slow,
  or the request even timeouted. Newly, when the list of packages (or the list of builds) is too large,
  we provide a server-side pagination feature.

- We fixed `list-builds` command in the copr-cli package. Printing of json
  is now continuous compared to the original approach, when everything was printed at once.
  We also fixed that we didn't print a valid json output for large projects that required
  paginating over more than just one page.

- When a user tries to display a repo file for a non-existent chroot,
  we return a more appropriate message that the chroot was not found.

- `#1423`_ - Createrepo locking was not "fair". We worked-around the absence of python
  fair locking mechanism by timeout polling, and this should bring about 2x more
  throughput for mass rebuilds.


.. _`Fedora 35`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-88cb945af2
.. _`Fedora 34`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-7dab1dcee5
.. _`Fedora 33`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-e01411594c
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2021-ef17120305
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2021-266eeec2e2

.. _`EOL Copr APIv1 and APIv2`: https://fedora-copr.github.io/posts/EOL-APIv1-APIv2
.. _`#54`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/54
.. _`#1423`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1423
