.. _release_notes_2021_06_16:

Highlights from 2021-06-16 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 34`_, `Fedora 33`_,
`EPEL 8`_ and `EPEL 7`_ Bodhi updates.


Users can disable generating appstream metadata for their projects
------------------------------------------------------------------

It was possible to disable the generation of appstream metadata for quite some
time, but it required contacting Copr maintainers to create a special file within
the project results. There is now an option in the project settings, and users
can disable/enable the appstream metadata generation by themselves.


Query built RPM results via API
-------------------------------

We added two API endpoints for obtaining build results (the NEVRAs of built RPM
packages). You can query build results from a specific build-chroot

.. code-block:: python

    from copr.v3 import Client

    client = Client.create_from_config_file()
    response = client.build_chroot_proxy.get_built_packages(123, "fedora-rawhide-x86_64")


And you can also query build results from all chroots within one build

.. code-block:: python

    client = Client.create_from_config_file()
    response = client.build_proxy.get_built_packages(123)


Pull request CoprDirs are automatically deleted after inactivity
----------------------------------------------------------------

Copr supports webhooks and automatically builds packages from PRs within an
upstream project. Such builds were kept indefinitely, and the `user interface
could get cluttered`_. We now automatically delete all PR-related content after
40 days of inactivity in that pull request. This should not be a problem for
long-term unfinished PRs because once the work is resumed, everything will be
rebuilt in Copr again.

This feature is now paused, and we'll re-enable it by the end of June.
In the meantime, please update your pull-requests to prolong your existing
builds (the red-labeled build-filtering buttons denote builds that would
be otherwise already removed).


Showing two latest Copr-related articles
----------------------------------------

For some time we present Copr-related blog posts on Copr frontpage.  Occasionally the post frequency is too quick, and some articles are not shown
on the homepage long enough, so we decided to show the two latest articles
instead of one.

Also, if you would like to have your Copr-related article published on the
homepage, `submit it here`_.


Worth noting
------------

- We created a script to calculate backend storage statistics and `show them in
  graphs`_

- While we are waiting for the new unified `Fedora websites redesign`_, we made
  just an intermediate step to change the Copr logo


Bugfixes
--------

- `#1422`_ - We now remove all leftovers after uploading SRPM packages and
  therefore we shouldn't encounter issues with insufficient space on
  the frontend when uploading large SRPM packages.

- `#1431`_ - The uploaded `comps.xml` file is now properly placed into the repodata.

- `#1539`_ - Source status of forked builds is now correctly in the `forked`
  state

- `#1633`_ - DistGit builds from src.fedoraproject.org can now be submitted even
  from forked projects. Simply specify a namespace like so `forks/churchyard`.

- `#1724`_ - We added a script for notifying old chroots that passed unnoticed
  and run it to mark EOL everything that should be.

- `#1737`_ - Link to `fedora-review` result is now shown only for Fedora chroots.

- `#1823`_ - We now ensure that `redhat-rpm-config` and `*rpm-macros` packages
  are now always up-to-date on builders.



.. _`Fedora 34`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-e4ab5521ec
.. _`Fedora 33`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-739569e2c4
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2021-01a8ed1078
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2021-82dbe71972
.. _`submit it here`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/fedora-copr.github.io
.. _`user interface could get cluttered`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/820
.. _`show them in graphs`: https://download.copr.fedorainfracloud.org/stats/index.html
.. _`Fedora websites redesign`: https://pagure.io/design/issue/758
.. _`#1422`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1422
.. _`#1431`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1431
.. _`#1539`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1539
.. _`#1633`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1633
.. _`#1724`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1724
.. _`#1737`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1737
.. _`#1823`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1823
