.. _release_notes_2021_03_17:

Highlights from 2021-03-17 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 34`_, `Fedora 33`_, `Fedora 32`_,
`EPEL 8`_ and `EPEL 7`_ Bodhi updates.


Automatic run of Fedora Review tool
-----------------------------------

There's a new per-project config option (e.g. ``copr create --fedora-review``)
that triggers an automatic run of `Fedora Review`_ after each build in such
project, for now only in the ``fedora-*`` chroots.

We don't mark the build failed when the review tool fails for now, and it is up
to the end-user to check the review results in the new ``review.txt`` file
that is created in build results.

Quick HOWTO for the `Package Review`_ time::

    $ copr create review-foo-component --chroot fedora-rawhide-x86_64 --fedora-review
    $ copr build review-foo-component ./foo.src.rpm
    ...
    # wait and see the results!


Updates in automatic repo cleanups
----------------------------------

The ``source-rpms`` directories, e.g. `the @copr/copr`_ one, ate a big amount of
remaining free space on the Copr Backend storage because we did not clean those
repositories before.  Therefore we installed a cron job doing an automatic
cleanup there.  The only reason motivating users to go there is when they try to
debug the failed source builds, so warning:  Please, from now on do the
debugging soon enough.  We clean all the stuff there older than 7 days,
similarly as we are used to cleanup obsoleted RPM builds.

We did several parallelization fixes in the repo pruner cron job, so it should
be much faster now (and some work on that is still WIP).


The centos-stream-8 chroot change
---------------------------------

In the following days, we plan to rename the ``centos-stream-x86_64`` chroot to
``centos-stream-8-x86_64``, this change already happened in the
``mock-core-configs`` package.  For the projects that have this chroot already
installed, we will install compatibility symlinks on backend side, like
``centos-stream-x86_64 -> centos-stream-8-x86_64``.  So already used repourls in
the wild will continue to work.  But note that these links are not not going to
be created for new projects.  Also note that your scripts working with Copr
Frontend (e.g. doing ``copr-cli build --chroot ...``) need to be updated.


Other Enhancements and bugfixes
-------------------------------

- The command-line tool now supports ``--enable-net`` option for ``build*``
  commands (so you can explicitly override the per-project settings).

- Copr Frontend was largely optimized for the huge-queue times, we believe that
  copr-frontend should flawlessly handle queue with several tens of thousands
  pending tasks.

- HTML tags are not expanded in project description fields.

- The pull-request submitter in Pagure is now correctly recognized and used as
  the submitter of automatic Copr builds.

- The repo files for EOLed chroots shouldn't be shown on project pages anymore.

- Newly, when no explicit branch is specified for DistGit or SCM build
  in Copr, we don't automatically expect ``master`` is the default branch.
  This fixed build-failures e.g. for Fedora DistGit builds where we moved
  from the default ``master`` to ``rawhide``.


.. _`under your control`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/user/repositories/
.. _`Fedora 34`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-60353d58c8
.. _`Fedora 33`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-16455c9e63
.. _`Fedora 32`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-f4aa5f9291
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2021-04161b969b
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2021-f856dbc7cb
.. _`Fedora Review`: https://pagure.io/FedoraReview
.. _`Package Review`: https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Package_Review_Process
.. _`the @copr/copr`: https://copr-be.cloud.fedoraproject.org/results/%40copr/copr/srpm-builds/
