.. _release_notes_2021_11_11:

Highlights from 2021-11-11 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 35`_, `Fedora 34`_, `Fedora 33`_,
`EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 7`_ Bodhi updates.

Searching by attributes
-----------------------

It is now possible to search by using specific attributes such as project name,
owner name, or package name. Searching strings such as @copr/copr of copr-cli
returns the exact same results as previously but on top of that,
it now recognizes the following GET parameters - `ownername`, `projectname`, `packagename`
and their combinations. Dropdown button has been added to Web-UI next to the search
box with predefined values to be searched.

APIv3 /monitor route
--------------------

The monitor route was added to our API and it can be used also with the copr-cli as:

.. code-block:: python

    copr-cli monitor @copr/copr-dev --fields "name, chroot, state, url_build_log"

Using this `monitor` command you can get information about package build state.
You can also choose which fields you want to print out.

Homepage redesign
-----------------

Our homepage was redesigned to a more modern form showing useful information about Copr.
There is now information about number of Copr projects and number of Fedora users.
We also added large search bar with instructions how to search by attributes such as username, group name, etc.
and row of cards with some interesting documentation sections

When you're logged in you can see your pinned projects. For users, that
didn't customize their pinned projects, we show their most recent
projects as a fallback.

The "Rebuild all" packages feature enhanced
-------------------------------------------

Previously, when all packages were rebuilt, Copr built all the selected packages
against all enabled chroots, ignoring the "chroot denylist" config (when some
packages are not supposed to be in particular chroots). Newly, we respect the
denylist by default, but users can opt-out from this.  `rhbz#2003474`_.

Bugfixes
--------

- `#1951`_ - We now accept admin permissions for submitting Copr builds without
  a need to explicitly grant the builder permissions either manually or automatically.

- We fixed login issues that occurred when the user entered their email instead
  of FAS username. This led to that the user was redirected to /login again
  and again which caused an infinite loop. So now we inform the user to use
  the FAS username instead of email.

- `#1925`_ - Editing settings for rubygems/rubygems projects didn't work.
  On @rubygems/rubygems in Fedora Copr, we faced timeouts when we tried to
  disable mock chroots with too many BuildChroots. We prepared a custom
  query for related BuildChroots that can be used with limit() safely.

- `rhbz#2015964`_ - Removing of builds was too slow, so removing of corresponding project
  with dozens of builds was taking too much time so the request was even able to
  timeout.

- `#1145`_ - Previously, user disabled the "automatic createrepo" feature, the builds
  done against the "staging" `devel/` repository were done with `skip_if_unavailable=True`.
  This had a potential for a very ugly problems, if the devel/ repository was really
  temporarily unavailable (built failures, or even build successes against an unexpected
  set of packages).

.. _`Fedora 35`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-c0bdefd473
.. _`Fedora 34`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-f6b2858d9d
.. _`Fedora 33`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2021-dad028058b
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2021-eedbf1f47d
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2021-e74efdc371

.. _`#1951`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1951
.. _`#1925`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1925
.. _`#1145`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1145
.. _`rhbz#2015964`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2015964
.. _`rhbz#2003474`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/2003474
