.. _release_notes_2022_06_22:

Highlights from 2022-06-22 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 35`_,
`Fedora 36`_, `EPEL 7`_, `EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 9`_ Bodhi updates.


Better build badges in Pagure
-----------------------------

For a long time, Copr supports automatical rebuilds for pull requests
in any Pagure instance. We enhanced the information that is sent back
to Pagure, and show package names for each build displayed in the
PR. This is especially useful for projects with multiple packages.


Resalloc WebUI
--------------

We took inspiration from the `OBS Monitor page`_ and created a page
that shows `statistics about available builder pools`_ (e.g., how many
x86_64 builders are up and running in Amazon AWS, how many s390x
builders are in IBM Cloud, etc) and also a page
`listing all available builders`_ and who is using them.


Notable changes
---------------

- It is now possible to specify ``chroot_denylist`` for a package via
  APIv3

- Stomp 6.1+ support for our fedora-messaging package

- The long-time deprecated action ``copr-cli buildfedpkg`` is now removed

- Improvements to error handling and logging to make debugging
  and occasional security-related investigations easier


Bugfixes
--------

- Fixed APIv3 call for listing all projects - it tracebacked for
  projects with no active chroots

- `#2082`_ - Because of a mistake in our database schema, see `#617`_,
  it was possible to stuck CI builds in an infinitely running state.

- `#2194`_ - The ``make_srpm`` SCM method stopped working because
  of the `safe directories`_ feature introduced by a new ``git``
  version.

- `#2094`_ - Copr-specific macros ``%copr_username``,
  ``%copr_projectname`` are now defined also in a SRPM buildroot

- `#2098`_ - When branching a new Fedora version, we now make sure to
  create a repository even if there are no builds

- `#2130`_ - The original ``committish`` value is now used when
  resubmitting a build

- `#2163`_ - The SCM method now uses ``git clone --recursive`` to clone
  the repositories

- `#2131`_, `#2133`_ - If not successful, we attempt to create project GPG
  keys, and sign built RPM packages multiple times.

- `packit/1386`_ - The networking is now by default disabled when
  submitting builds via ``python3-copr`` library. The default was
  changed to match the behavior of the WebUI and ``copr-cli``


.. _`Fedora 35`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-13b756f53f
.. _`Fedora 36`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-12234faaef
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-6d38336660
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-6fe6d98425
.. _`EPEL 9`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-5d55ddc5ee

.. _`Fedora Copr instance`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/
.. _`Safe directories`: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-config/2.35.2#Documentation/git-config.txt-safedirectory
.. _`OBS Monitor page`: https://build.opensuse.org/monitor
.. _`statistics about available builder pools`: https://copr-be.cloud.fedoraproject.org/resalloc/pools
.. _`listing all available builders`: https://copr-be.cloud.fedoraproject.org/resalloc/resources

.. _`#617`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/617
.. _`#2082`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/2082
.. _`#2194`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/2194
.. _`#2094`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/2094
.. _`#2098`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/2098
.. _`#2130`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/2130
.. _`#2163`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/2163
.. _`#2131`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/2131
.. _`#2133`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/2133
.. _`packit/1386`: https://github.com/packit/packit/issues/1386
