.. _release_notes_2022_02_03:

Highlights from 2022-02-03 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 35`_, `Fedora 34`_,
`EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 7`_ Bodhi updates.

Removing unused tarballs
------------------------

We automatized removing all tarballs in the package lookaside directory except
for tarballs that are referenced by the latest commit of each branch in the package git directory.

More human-readable validation errors in APIv3
----------------------------------------------

We changed the error messages in APIv3 because not all of them were completely human-readable.
Previously we showed something like a dictionary. This changed to string which better shows what was wrong.

Basic build tagging
-------------------

We needed per-mock-chroot tag propagated to builds, as we have two kinds of the
ppc64le builders. Power8 machines (might be used for building Fedora
and older Enterprise Linux chroots), and Power9 (can be used for
Enterprise Linux 9+, but also other/older chroots).
The point here is to never assign Power8 machine for the EL 9 chroot
build task. For this, we need to have a special tag and a correspondingly tagged resalloc resources.
As the result, this allowed us to add epel-9-ppc64le and centos-stream-9-ppc64le chroots.

Webhook rebuilds are background jobs now
----------------------------------------

We run webhook rebuilds as background jobs now.
In the future, we'd like to have an option in the webhook URL to let users decide if they prefer background jobs.

The dist-git method used for modular builds by default
------------------------------------------------------

The custom clone URL is somewhat problematic. We used to have
'/etc/copr-rpmbuild/main.ini' configured so rpkg-util could use several
DistGit instances, but that did not really cover lot of DistGit
instances.
With the new rpkg-util, building from DistGit is not that flexible,
and the set of packages it can correctly build shrank a bit.
Therefore we use the DistGit method that we can configure well against
all the DistGit instances we currently know of.

Bugfixes
--------

- `#1993`_ *pkg_version* field was added to monitor action. It allows to detect package version and package mismatches across chroots.
- `#1924`_ We added a limit for RubyGems and PyPI package name length because it was causing a build to hang.
- `#1985`_ When you submit a build using copr-cli and cancel the build using web UI then the exit code will be 4.
- `rhbz#1870320`_ `Documentation`_  added on how to use advanced searching possibilities.
- `rhbz#2036631`_  Command `copr list-packages` was timing out for large Copr repositories.


.. _`Fedora 35`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-103e6db92c
.. _`Fedora 34`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-b1f6928408
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-e55d502a93
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-2fae22aa0b

.. _`#1993`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1993
.. _`#1924`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1924
.. _`rhbz#1870320`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1870320
.. _`rhbz#2036631`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2036631
.. _`#1985`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/1985
.. _`Documentation`: https://docs.pagure.org/copr.copr/user_documentation.html#advanced-searching