.. _release_notes_2022_04_05: 

Highlights from 2022-04-05 release 
================================== 

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 34`_, `Fedora 35`_, 
`Fedora 36`_, `EPEL 7`_, `EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 9`_ Bodhi updates. 


Kerberos/GSSAPI authentication for API and copr-cli
---------------------------------------------------

Newly, when working with the `Fedora Copr instance`_, users
don't have to install the ``~/.config/copr`` token.  It is enough
to take a Fedora Kerberos ticket, and ``copr-cli`` starts working::
    
    $ fkinit # optionally with "-u username"
    Enter your password and OTP concatenated. (Ignore that the prompt is for only the token) 
    Enter OTP Token Value: <your password>
    $ copr whoami
    your_username

If you have Kerberos ticket, you can also use this authentication method in WebUI by clicking on the ``gssapi-login`` link (negotiate needs to be allowed for the
``.fedorainfracloud.org`` domain in the browser).

For other Copr instances, a simplified configuration referring the Copr
frontpage is still needed.  For more info see ``man copr-cli``, the
``AUTHENTICATION`` section.


Copr-cli re-tries connections with Copr Frontend
------------------------------------------------

When there's some temporary Copr Frontend server (Web-UI & API) issue,
and thus copr-cli fails to communicate over API - it newly doesn't give
up immediately but re-tries (3x with several seconds delay between the
attempts).  The number of attempts can be specified using the python3-copr
API, too (by default set to one attempt).


Large queue improvements 
------------------------ 

Lately, there have been multiple concurrent mass rebuilds pushing 
Copr to its limits.  When reaching tens of thousands builds in the queue, 
several problems started to appear.  Newly we significantly optimized
the backend part of the build system so it should handle large queues
promptly and thus successfully delegate the tasks to the builders.  Also
the ``Backend <=> Frontend`` protocol was optimized for large queues.


Smaller fixes
-------------

- On several places in the web-UI we differentiated the background
  tasks from the normal tasks.  Background jobs have lower priority
  and if they are being processed, it means there's enough resources
  to handle normal jobs and still take some background jobs.
  
- We fixed a bug in our DistGit cleanup script that garbage-collected
  some of the temporarily imported sources too early, this caused
  build failures before, `PR#2078`_.



.. _`Fedora 34`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-d35ecdf4d2
.. _`Fedora 35`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-62d97ba4b2
.. _`Fedora 36`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-d56c2496e3
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-49ba5c52a1
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-67cef08054
.. _`EPEL 9`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-d2a8b0e47d

.. _`Fedora Copr instance`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/
.. _`PR#2078`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issue/2078
