.. _release_notes_2022_11_28:

Highlights from 2022-11-28 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 35`_,
`Fedora 36`_,  `Fedora 37`_, `EPEL 7`_, `EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 9`_ Bodhi updates.


Development moved to GitHub
---------------------------

The upstream development moved from Pagure back to GitHub:

- Code: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr
- Issues: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues
- Pull Requests: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pulls

The original Pagure issue tracker, and pull-requests for the
repository are now read-only. We migrated the existing issues to
GitHub and preserved matching IDs. However, all issues are opened by a
bot account, and therefore you won't receive any notifications for
issues that you submitted to our `Pagure issue tracker`_. Please find
your issues and click the ``Subscribe`` button on GitHub.

The main motivation was that Pagure workers were very slow for the
Copr project (e.g. rebasing and merging PRs took ages, and often
failed).  We also `accumulated many issues over the years`_.

DistGit scheduler
-----------------

Generally, packages are imported into Copr DistGit almost
instantly. That's why we made it this far a simple
First-Come-First-Serve queue without any prioritization, and with very
basic parallelization. This simple workflow worked from early days. But with increasing popularity of Copr service this started to not be enough.
In some scenarios (multiple large uploads, mass-rebuilds
without background priority, etc), Copr DistGit could get overloaded
and block all users for many hours.

We now deployed the same dispatcher and standalone workers mechanism
that we've been using for builders on the Copr backend side.  This
brings an import queue prioritization.  So while even users with huge
task chunks will be processed, other users (e.g. comming later) will
get their tasks imported quickly at the same time.


Updated aarch64 builders to Graviton3 processors
------------------------------------------------

Fedora Copr builders are hosted in AWS.  Previously we were running
them on a1.xlarge instances (4vcpu, 8GB RAM, Graviton processors) -
`now we are on c7g.xlarge`_. These aarch64 builders should be much
faster.


Notable changes
---------------

- The Task Queue numbers on the homepage are now cached for one
  minute, reducing the loading time by up to 0.5s
- Each build now shows also a link to the ``import.log`` file. This
  log is helpful for debugging issues when SRPM package is built
  successfully but then it fails when importing to DistGit
- Besides user groups from `Fedora Accounts`_, we implemented support
  for groups from LDAP server. This option won't be enabled for Fedora
  Copr instance.
- Custom source builds now can install build-time dependencies from
  additional external repositories
- After a decade of service, the copr-backend storage contained many
  backup, debug, and other miscellaneous untracked files. We added a
  script that helps with cleaning them up.
- Packages are now signed with OpenPGP v4 signatures. We tested the
  signature compatibility on RHEL6+


Bugfixes
--------

- `#2284`_ - Large SRPM uploads shouldn't timeout anymore
- `#2303`_ - SRPM upload provided misleading information on expired
  authentication
- `#2232`_ - SRPM upload sometimes caused the WSGI daemon get stuck
  with 100% CPU usage. We believe the issue is fixed now



.. _`Fedora 35`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-1a40ad831a
.. _`Fedora 36`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-a0d33ac8ff
.. _`Fedora 37`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-9b61235792
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-d42377438b
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-d42ef84c95
.. _`EPEL 9`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2022-472a1c1dba

.. _`Pagure issue tracker`: https://pagure.io/copr/copr/issues?status=all
.. _`Fedora Accounts`: https://accounts.fedoraproject.org/
.. _`accumulated many issues over the years`: https://pagure.io/pagure/issues?status=all&author=praiskup&close_status=
.. _`now we are on c7g.xlarge`: https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/buildsys@lists.fedoraproject.org/thread/VUAOXQ3BNXDZMVFR2PJCBQYWGWOIYMPD/

.. _`#2284`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2284
.. _`#2303`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2303
.. _`#2232`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2232
