.. _release_notes_2023_01_25:

Highlights from 2023-01-25 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 36`_,  `Fedora 37`_, `EPEL 7`_,
`EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 9`_ Bodhi updates.


Outage banner
-------------

Many times we received feedback that the upcoming outages are not being
announced clearly enough or soon enough and that users are being surprised by
them. Currently, we are announcing upcoming releases on
`status.fedoraproject.org`_ and `Copr mailing list`_ but going forward, we are
also going to show a banner at the top of the `copr.fedorainfracloud.org`_ page
itself.


Downloading the built RPM packages
----------------------------------

It was always possible to download Copr build results with the following
command::

  copr-cli download-build 123456

This downloads all files (logs, config files, debug files, built packages) for
all chroots for a given build. That is a considerable amount of files (e.g. I
tried it for a build with 22 chroots, it downloaded 455 files and took 40s
seconds). It is possible to limit the download to a specific chroot using the
``--chroot`` parameter. And newly, thanks to `RHBZ 2151239`_, it is now possible
to specify also ``--rpms`` and/or ``--spec`` parameters to download only the
resulting RPM packages and/or spec files, e.g.::

  copr-cli download-build 123456 --rpms --spec


Notable changes
---------------

- License fields migrated to SPDX expressions.
  See `Changes/SPDX Licenses Phase 1`_.
- The AppStream metadata generation is now disabled by default. The
  ``appstream-builder`` tool is very I/O demanding and predictably fails for
  large projects. Feel free to opt-in for this feature if you want it.
- `RHBZ 2152268`_ - Build and package tables now highlight the row under the
  cursor to improve orientation.
- When the copr-distgit instance is temporarily down, builders will try to
  contact it again instead of failing immediately.


Bugfixes
--------

- `#2417`_ - Don't traceback when displaying a nonexisting branch
- `#2390`_ - Don't traceback when displaying a nonexisting task
- `#2357`_ - Status badges are not affected by CI builds for pull requests
- `#2341`_ - The ``copr-cli monitor`` doesn't ignore its ``--dirname`` parameter
  anymore
- `#2454`_ - Don't fail for packages with caret in their version
- `#2456`_ - Print a user-friendly error when submitting a wrong SRPM URL
- `#2448`_ - Correct Fedora users count on the homepage (the number of Copr
  users didn't double overnight, we just calculated them incorrectly)
- `#2463`_ - The APIv3 chroot field ``additional_modules`` now correctly accepts
  a list of modules, instead of a space-separated string
- `#2482`_ - Fixed compatibility with ``python3-flask-wtf-1.1.0-1.fc38`` that
  landed in Fedora rawhide
- `#2107`_ - Fixed a race condition when creating multiple build batches in
  parallel
- `#2416`_ - After we upgraded Copr servers to F37, custom webhooks started
  failing because of empty payloads. It should work now.
- `#2289`_ - Automatic PyPI builds through Anitya now respect the spec
  generator option
- `#2467`_ - Automatic Anitya builds are now submitted with the background
  flag
- `#2466`_ - Pre-release versions from Anitya are ignored
- `RHBZ 2159978`_ - The ``flask-restful`` dependency wasn't needed anymore
- `RHBZ 2162735`_ - Fixed ``$basearch`` example value
- `RHBZ 2162436`_ - Fixed compatibility with ``python-packaging`` version 23.0,
  which is soon going to land in Fedora rawhide
- Fixed `order of log names`_ in the build results



.. _`Fedora 36`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-095c72f5cb
.. _`Fedora 37`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-5f5b81e81c
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2023-016a5af72a
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2023-a3f2753730
.. _`EPEL 9`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2023-7f80aa87c9

.. _`#2417`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2417
.. _`#2390`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2390
.. _`#2357`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2357
.. _`#2341`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2341
.. _`#2456`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2456
.. _`#2448`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2448
.. _`#2463`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2463
.. _`#2482`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2482
.. _`#2107`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2107
.. _`#2416`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2416
.. _`#2289`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2289
.. _`#2467`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2467
.. _`#2466`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2466
.. _`#2454`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2454/commits/f4c857c8b4957c7998dd7ec1adbb7172858fd2a6
.. _`RHBZ 2151239`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2151239
.. _`RHBZ 2159978`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2159978
.. _`RHBZ 2162735`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2162735
.. _`RHBZ 2162436`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2162436
.. _`RHBZ 2152268`: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2152268

.. _`order of log names`: https://social.linux.pizza/@knurd42/109702895855625653
.. _`Changes/SPDX Licenses Phase 1`: https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/SPDX_Licenses_Phase_1
.. _`status.fedoraproject.org`: https://status.fedoraproject.org/
.. _`Copr mailing list`: https://lists.fedorahosted.org/archives/list/copr-devel@lists.fedorahosted.org/
.. _`copr.fedorainfracloud.org`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/
