.. _release_notes_2023_04_05:

Highlights from 2023-04-05 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 36`_, `Fedora 37`_, `Fedora 38`_,
`EPEL 7`_, `EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 9`_ Bodhi updates.


Disable AppStream for existing Copr projects
--------------------------------------------

We decided to disable AppStream metadata generation for all projects
excluding those mentioned in this `Fedora discussion`_ due to a very
high I/O demand of the ``appstream-builder`` tool which causes
failures in builds even for medium-sized projects. If you want to
enable generating AppStream data for your project (with a relatively
high chance of a random build failure due to a timeout), please go to
project settings and enable it back. (`#2577`_)


Fixing slow searching in Fedora Copr projects
---------------------------------------------

Searching in Copr was slow and often timeout. We discussed options
to switch to another search engine since our current search engine
``whoosh`` seemed to be slow. We managed to speed up the search
speed. (`#2534`_)


Running ``createrepo_c`` without ``--database``
-----------------------------------------------

Previously, we used to run ``createrepo_c`` with ``--database`` option,
which we do not need (see discussion in `#1171`_). Now we decided to
not create SQLite databases and run ``createrepo_c`` with
``--no-database`` option to save some space. (`#2570`_)



Notable changes
---------------

- Previously, when you uploaded src.rpm to be built in non-enabled chroot,
  Copr emitted an error after the upload of src.rpm. Now we check the
  chroot before you upload the src.rpm. (`#2524`_)
- We introduced a new cli command ``copr get`` which returns detailed
  information about desired project. (`#2582`_)
- ``copr download-build`` command is getting new ``--review`` option which
  downloads only fedora-review files (`#2584`_)
- ``copr create`` has new option ``--follow-fedora-branching`` with which you
  can turn ``follow-fedora-branching`` on or off in your project. (`#2545`_)



Bugfixes
--------

- `#2519`_ - Fix sorting builds by build time in Web UI
- `#984`_ - Disallow forking too large Copr projects
- `#2538`_ - Don't branch armhfp chroots
- `#2523`_ - Allow cron automation to remove builds
- `#2532`_ - Rubygem rebuild button redirects into an edit page
- `#2567`_ - SRPM result directory has invalid path
- `#2585`_ - ``copr-distgit-client sources` fails when the ``sources`` file contains an empty line
- `#2652`_ - Dealing with python-rpkg incompatibilities #1
- `#2600`_ - Dealing with python-rpkg incompatibilities #2
- `#2516`_ - Anitya: dont rebuild already running jobs
- `#2542`_ - Fix config files installation pattern



.. _`Fedora 36`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-0fd6eeaed0
.. _`Fedora 37`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-e54d383c89
.. _`Fedora 38`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-ff8c400240
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2023-dc8fa7eec4
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2023-29edad2877
.. _`EPEL 9`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2023-99fb689da6

.. _`#2519`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2519
.. _`#984`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/984
.. _`#2538`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2538
.. _`#2523`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2523
.. _`#2532`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2532
.. _`#1171`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/1171
.. _`#2567`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2567
.. _`#2585`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2585
.. _`#2652`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2652
.. _`#2600`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2600
.. _`#2516`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2516
.. _`#2542`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2542

.. _`Fedora discussion`: https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/devel@lists.fedoraproject.org/thread/X63HU2ETJJ5NLSU64HMGVU74A2J2WNLT/
.. _`#2524`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2524
.. _`#2582`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2582
.. _`#2584`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2584
.. _`#2577`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2577
.. _`#2534`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2534
.. _`#2545`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2545
.. _`#2570`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2570
