.. _release_notes_2023_05_25:

Highlights from 2023-05-25 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 37`_, `Fedora 38`_, `EPEL 7`_,
`EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 9`_ Bodhi updates.


OpenAPI and Swagger
-------------------

We are trying to provide useful documentation for every Copr component or
interesting feature but one of the things that was consistently not well
documented was our API, see `#1865`_. It is not finished yet but we started
working on an `OpenAPI`_ documentation using `Swagger`_. When you open the
`Copr API`_ page, it shows a link to the `API documentation`_. At this moment,
only a fraction of endpoints are documented but we've got to start somewhere.


OpenID Connect (OIDC)
---------------------

Thanks to `the contribution`_ from `@pkking`_, Copr has support for
authenticating users through OpenID Connect (OIDC). This feature is not
configured for the Fedora Copr instance yet but we are planning to enable it in
the future.


Documentation
-------------

Within this release, we prioritized documentation improvements:

- The ``[copr-build]`` keyword `is now documented`_
- `Pagure PR/commit flagging description`_ was improved and has images
- The whole `Pagure documentation`_ was moved into a separate document
- `#2681`_ - Fixed `allowed licenses`_ link
- `#2528`_ - Explained that `SRPM is downloaded only once`_ per build
- `#1465`_ - Up-to-date `Copr architecture`_ diagram, now written in PlantUML
- `#2173`_ - The ``add-package-custom`` and ``edit-package-custom`` are now
  described in the ``copr-cli`` manual page
- Maintenance documentation improvements such as `backup recovery page`_


Notable changes
---------------

- The `API page`_ used to show different information for logged and anonymous
  users. Many users were confused by this and couldn't find their API config
  because of it. Copr now shows the API config even for anonymous users,
  instructing them to log in.
- At the start of each ``builder-live.log`` there are now instructions on how to
  reproduce the build locally using the ``copr-rpmbuild`` tool. The instructions
  are not limited to the Fedora Copr instance but should work for all known Copr
  instances.
- New API endpoint ``/api_3/rpmrepo/`` providing all project repositories in one
  call. It is used by the new `DNF5 Copr plugin`_
- The ``follow_fedora_branching`` field is now returned via the API
- The `task queue`_ now shows a link to the `Resalloc WebUI`_ page. It is still
  in an early stage of development and looks clearly unfinished. But it already
  allows you to see how many builders are available, what are they doing, and so
  on.
- You can see `graphs of how much others use Copr`_


Bugfixes
--------

- `#2566`_ - When an SCM build was submitted from a repository with an
  unambiguous branch name and filename, the build got stuck in an infinite loop
- When ``git checkout <committish>`` failed, Copr repeated the whole cloning
  and checkout process again, causing more harm than good. Now only the checkout
  action is repeated.
- `#2658`_ - A general check before uploading a SRPM file using ``copr-cli``. It
  shouldn't happen anymore that you finish uploading a SRPM file and then get an
  error that your token expired, project permissions are incorrect, or anything
  else.
- `#2696`_ - Fixed broken login caused by ``405 Method Not Allowed`` error
- `#2714`_ - More readable errors related to implicit (taken from ``copr-cli``
  config file) owner name
- `#2703`_ - It is now possible to submit EPEL module builds


.. _`Fedora 37`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-c15818fa6a
.. _`Fedora 38`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-b5f68e66f1
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2023-089195859d
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2023-324f3ad766
.. _`EPEL 9`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2023-719e93c2cf

.. _`API page`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/api/
.. _`Copr API`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/api/
.. _`API documentation`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/api_3/docs
.. _`@pkking`: https://github.com/pkking
.. _`DNF5 Copr plugin`: https://dnf5.readthedocs.io/en/latest/dnf5_plugins/copr.8.html
.. _`allowed licenses`: https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/legal/allowed-licenses
.. _`task queue`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/status/
.. _`Resalloc WebUI`: https://download.copr.fedorainfracloud.org/resalloc
.. _`the contribution`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/2713
.. _`is now documented`: https://docs.pagure.org/copr.copr/user_documentation/pagure_integration.html#auto-rebuilding
.. _`Pagure PR/commit flagging description`: https://docs.pagure.org/copr.copr/user_documentation/pagure_integration.html#pr-commit-flagging
.. _`Pagure documentation`: https://docs.pagure.org/copr.copr/user_documentation/pagure_integration.html
.. _`SRPM is downloaded only once`: https://docs.pagure.org/copr.copr/user_documentation.html#distgit
.. _`Copr architecture`: https://docs.pagure.org/copr.copr/developer_documentation/architecture.html
.. _`backup recovery page`: https://docs.pagure.org/copr.copr/backup_recovery.html
.. _`graphs of how much others use Copr`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/usage/
.. _`OpenAPI`: https://www.openapis.org/
.. _`Swagger`: https://swagger.io/

.. _`#2566`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2566
.. _`#1865`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/1865
.. _`#2681`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2681
.. _`#2528`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2528
.. _`#1465`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/1465
.. _`#2173`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2173
.. _`#2658`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2658
.. _`#2696`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2696
.. _`#2714`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2714
.. _`#2703`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2703
