.. _release_notes_2024_05_22:

Highlights from 2024-05-22 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 39`_, `Fedora 40`_, `EPEL 7`_,
`EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 9`_ Bodhi updates.

Enhancements
------------

- Users can now set the default build timeout per package, see `PR#3259`_.

- The end-of-life process for disabled chroots (started, for example, for
  `fedora-37-x86_64` when Fedora 37 went EOL) includes an e-mail notification
  mechanism to inform users that built RPMs are being removed.  Previously, for
  users with many projects and many enabled chroots, these e-mails were too long
  and hard to understand.  Jakub `simplified them <PR#3236_>`_ in this release.

- The list of projects in Copr's UI (the default global list, per-group, and
  per-user) is now sorted differently.  Temporary projects `get lower priority
  <PR#3232_>`_ and are presented behind the normal "stable" projects,
  giving more visibility to the "stable" projects (where people care more).

- Jirka completed the long migration of Copr's APIv3 to ``flask-restx``, which
  provides users with a very `neat self-documentation <apidocs_>`_. This is the
  first release where all the API routes are documented.


Bugfixes
--------

- Jakub fixed two long-standing bugs/TODOs in the Copr's Rawhide branching
  script in this release. First, the script now branches *all* the Copr chroots,
  including those representing `pull-request directories <#2272_>`_, and second,
  Copr tries to generate the post-branching repository multiple times, for cases
  when the repo generator (the ``createrepo_c`` utility) fails.  These problems
  were `frequently reported to the Copr team <#3016_>`_ as the build-time
  failure ``Giving up waiting for copr_base repository``.

- The button for feeding LogDetective was `fixed to provide valid options
  <#3183>`_.


Warnings/Future changes
-----------------------

- The team is working on automatic cleanup of old Copr Backend data (build
  results) for `lifeless rolling chroots <rollingeol_>`_ (e.g., Fedora Rawhide,
  Fedora ELN, etc.). The effect of the policy will probably not come into effect
  until the end of the year 2024, but be prepared that you might be affected by
  this change.

- The long-term known gray zone in Copr is the ability to build the exact same
  package NEVRA multiple times into the same project/repositories (i.e., Copr
  does not require you to bump Release).  This is allowed now and will be in the
  future.  However, if such duplicates are placed into RPM repositories, it is
  undefined which one is installed by end-users.  This "presentation" layer is
  likely `going to change <#3262_>`_ with the `Copr-move-to-PULP <pulp_>`_ in
  the future.


Maintenance
-----------

- Comptibility fixes for the new Flask/SQLAlchemy versions were done.


.. _`PR#3259`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3259
.. _`PR#3236`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3236
.. _`PR#3232`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3232

.. _`#2272`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2272
.. _`#3016`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/3016
.. _`#3183`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/3183

.. _`#3262`:   https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/3262

.. _`pulp`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2533
.. _`apidocs`: https://copr.fedoraproject.org/api_3/docs
.. _`rollingeol`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2933

.. _`Fedora 39`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2024-031843ba05
.. _`Fedora 40`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2024-d94c8815f0
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2024-473133d592
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2024-14e170dd45
.. _`EPEL 9`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2024-7d39fa6183
