.. _release_notes_2024_03_07:

Highlights from 2024-03-07 release
==================================

Updated client packages are shipped in `Fedora 38`_, `Fedora 39`_, `Fedora 40`_,
`EPEL 7`_, `EPEL 8`_, and `EPEL 9`_ Bodhi updates.

Enhancements
------------

- The Copr build system now `allows users to SSH into the Copr workers
  <#2364_>`_.  If your build fails and you require a hands-on builder
  experience, you can retrigger the build (with an uploaded public SSH key).
  Once the worker is assigned to your task, the automation grants you root
  permissions over SSH.  This feature is currently available only in the web UI.
  To experiment, debug - open the page with the failed build and use the
  "Resubmit and allow SSH" button. Please read more in the `SSH access to
  Copr builders`_ blog post.

- The Copr API documentation provided at ``/api_3/docs`` URI has been updated,
  and almost all the API endpoints are now documented.

- The Copr team is working on the AI project `Log Detective`_, which aims to
  help with build failure analysis.  Although the project is still under
  development, you can contribute to the community by helping gather a build
  failure training dataset.  This Copr release adds a convenience button that
  redirects you to the `Log Detective`_ site, pre-filling the site with the
  build failure logs to simplify the data gathering process.

- The ``python-copr`` API has been enhanced to support the ``exist_ok=True``
  argument when creating Copr projects, with this default::

        def ProjectAdd.post(..., exist_ok=False):

  If used with ``True``, the call will report "success" even if the project
  already exists. This helps with CI job concurrency, where multiple jobs try to
  ensure that the project exists.

Bugfixes
--------

- `Temporary projects are again correctly removed <#2489_>`_ (the corresponding
  cron job has been fixed).

- The ``copr build <copr dir> <srpm>`` command has been fixed to support
  creating custom directories like ``project:custom:foo``.  The logic first
  checks that such a directory exists or at least can be created, and only then
  proceeds with the (potentially large) SRC.RPM upload.  A corresponding race
  condition was fixed that sometimes caused broken repository preparation and
  subsequent build failures, requiring a "manual createrepo task".

- The ``*.repo`` download counter has been fixed to properly increment without
  race conditions.

- The per-package "chroot denylist" feature has been fixed to allow you to
  specify the literal ``.`` symbol in the pattern (some chroot names contain the
  ``.`` symbol, like ``opensuse-leap-15.5-*``).

Features/Changes for administrators
-----------------------------------

- The new release `allows the administrator <PR#3023_>`_ to specify which claim
  from OpenIDC UserInfo should be used as a Copr username using the
  ``OIDC_USERNAME_CLAIM`` configuration option.  For example, they may choose
  ``preferred_username`` if they know that the values from their OIDC provider
  will be unique.

- The default configuration of Copr services is now configured to only keep 6
  weeks of logs, instead of 13.

- The ``copr-backend`` logic now periodically checks if the resalloc ticket
  isn't in a ``FAILED`` state.  This previously caused builder `hangups in
  confusing situations <#2888_>`_.

- Copr Frontend compatibility with Werkzeug/Flask 3, this includes the fix for
  ``fedora-messaging`` consumer (pagure events).

- The ``copr-rpmbuild`` got several fixes for the new ``mock`` and
  ``mock-core-configs`` in the DNF5 era.

.. _`Log Detective`: https://log-detective.com/
.. _`#2140`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2140
.. _`#2364`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2364
.. _`#2489`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2489
.. _`#2888`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2888
.. _`#2786`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/2786
.. _`#3117`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/3117
.. _`PR#3023`: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3023
.. _`/api_3/docs`: https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/api_3/docs
.. _`SSH access to Copr builders`: https://frostyx.cz/posts/ssh-access-to-copr-builders

.. _`Fedora 38`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2024-153d2b19a7
.. _`Fedora 39`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2024-680c9d3f98
.. _`Fedora 40`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2024-4eb3caaef4
.. _`EPEL 7`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2024-1360839ea4
.. _`EPEL 8`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2024-e9b3113fcf
.. _`EPEL 9`: https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2024-83215d2cb5
