.. _release_notes_2025_03_26:

Highlights from 2025-03-26 release
==================================

Enhancements
------------

- Jakub continues on adding support for Pulp in Copr. We are slowly adding more 
  features to it. Most notable additions are:

  - Regenerate devel repositories `PR#3524`_.
  - Implement CDN baseurl `PR#3657`_.
  - Implement backward compatibility for old repofiles `PR#3504`_.
  - And more: `PR#3509`_, `PR#3461`_.

- Copr has integrated `log_detective`_ service for failed builds directly to the UI.
  Try it out by clicking the Ask AI link about failure explanation. If you want to help us
  with creating better model, you can click Tech AI and provide a feedback about your failed
  build. The AI service is still in beta, so some bugs might occur. `PR#3608`_.
- Custom Webhook now adds a record in Webhook History table. `PR#3456`_.
- Add footer note thanking and mentioning who sponsors the Fedora Copr project `PR#3600`_.
- Introduce OIDC authentication for Copr. `PR#3642`_.


Bugfixes
--------

- Fix safe.directory error for make_srpm method. `PR#3464`_.
- Fix unexpected 400 errors `PR#3472`_.
- Fix "Expire now" button in the chroot page. `PR#3599`_.
- Fix "dnf4 copr enable" traceback on non-existing projects. `PR#3594`_.
- /build/source-chroot endpoint dissapeared for a while, but it is back now. `PR#3578`_.
- Limit for builds per architecture was mistakenly applied to all architectures `PR#3575`_.
- Fix log subject in emails informing about builds. `PR#3530`_.
- Skip only if all macros in ExclusiveArch and ExcludeArch evaluated. `PR#3513`_.
- Fix bad formating when non-existing project was requested. `PR#3651`_.
- Problems with Fedora 42 custom method fixed - builders no longer assume /bin/su
  works in minimal Mock chroot `Issue#3631`_.


Warnings/Future changes
-----------------------

- Dropping support for i686 architecture. `PR#3563`_.


.. _PR#3456: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3456
.. _PR#3464: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3464
.. _PR#3509: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3509
.. _PR#3461: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3461
.. _PR#3472: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3472
.. _PR#3608: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3608
.. _PR#3600: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3600
.. _PR#3599: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3599
.. _PR#3594: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3594
.. _PR#3578: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3578
.. _PR#3575: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3575
.. _PR#3563: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3563
.. _PR#3530: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3530
.. _PR#3524: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3524
.. _PR#3513: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3513
.. _PR#3657: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3657
.. _PR#3651: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3651
.. _PR#3642: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/pull/3642
.. _PR#3504: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/3504
.. _Issue#3631: https://github.com/fedora-copr/copr/issues/3631
.. _log_detective: https://log-detective.com/
